With the transition to the real world almost complete it is time to reflect. During my time in the Computer Science program at UC Berkeley I learned that finishing projects was the most important thing. The programming/coding solidified what was learned about a concept/system, and was a simple afterthought - the complete assignment was evidence of learning. If this style of thinking was encouraged in the workplace, then you would find yourself in a disastrous situation. If we can all agree that the product and the business are put in jeopardy when code is untested, then academic computer science is promoting a dangerous reality. 

This could stem from the overall lack of industry experience on the side of the professors, or the perceived general scarcity of time with which to complete projects. The things that I learned at UC Berkeley are not put to use on a daily basis, but somehow each fact, each project, and each test question leads to a powerful abstraction. An abstraction that provides the basis for all future thought without which would have put me in jeopardy of being a [1x programmer](http://www.forbes.com/sites/venkateshrao/2011/12/05/the-rise-of-developeronomics/).

I am neither advocating the computer science education nor am I advocating the alternative. I am however, advocating a sufficiently robust abstraction. The level of success that you are able to achieve is directly correlated. 

The way of academia works like this: write code, run code, observe that it does not work, write more code, repeat. Simply manually verified. This fact leads to more frustration and less thought about the important aspects of a system. frustration does not breed understanding. On the other hand, tests that drive the implementation ensure that frustrations are overcome quickly,  design decisions and provide documentation.

The top academic computer science programs in the world are teaching and reinforcing a process that leads to high cost and sub-optional software. The industry innovators are reinforcing another, more elegant, process - the test-driven process. For many people a computer science program will be the most structured and convenient solution to this problem, others will find that taking a job at a startup will serve the same purpose. It is your life, your struggle and ultimately you will need to consider what you believe about the world. On one hand you have the stories of the computer science dropouts who make a name for themselves, and you have the same stories about the classically educated. But consider this, what stories **would** you hear and who's voices are louder. Make the tough decision and do so voraciously - be mindful of your shortcomings, and never settle.
